# ExploratoryDataAnalysis_CourseProject1
The data for the following assignment is from the following references which is a popuar machine learning data set.
archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/

The data set can be downloaded from the following reference.It contains data about measurements of electric power consumption in one household with a one-minute sampling rate over a period of almost 4 years. Different electrical quantities and some sub-metering values are available.
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/exdata%2Fdata%2Fhousehold_power_consumption.zip

There are 9 variables in the dataset are taken from the UCI web site:

    Date: Date in format dd/mm/yyyy
    Time: time in format hh:mm:ss
    Global_active_power: household global minute-averaged active power (in kilowatt)
    Global_reactive_power: household global minute-averaged reactive power (in kilowatt)
    Voltage: minute-averaged voltage (in volt)
    Global_intensity: household global minute-averaged current intensity (in ampere)
    Sub_metering_1: energy sub-metering No. 1 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the kitchen, containing mainly a dishwasher, an oven and a microwave (hot plates are not electric but gas powered).
    Sub_metering_2: energy sub-metering No. 2 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the laundry room, containing a washing-machine, a tumble-drier, a refrigerator and a light.
    Sub_metering_3: energy sub-metering No. 3 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to an electric water-heater and an air-conditioner.
    
    It contains the following files
    ###plot1.R,plot2.R,plot3.R,plot4.R:
    They contain the code required for reading the data,subsetting it and generating the plot.These plots are trying to mimic the ones in this reference.
    https://www.coursera.org/learn/exploratory-data-analysis/peer/ylVFo/course-project-1
    
      ###plot1.PNG,plot2.PNG,plot3.PNG,plot4.PNG:They contain the plots generated by plot1.R,plot2.R,plot3.R,plot4.R respectively
    
    
